Cloud: run Data App in Postman (#14375)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md

---
title: Run Data App in Postman
summary: Learn how to run your Data App in Postman.
---

# Run Data App in Postman

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is an API platform for building and using APIs, which simplifies each step of the API lifecycle and streamlines collaboration so you can create better APIs—faster.

In TiDB Cloud [Data Service](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service), you can easily connect your Data App to Postman and leverage Postman's extensive tools to enhance your API development experience.

> This document describes how to connect your Data App to Postman and how to run your Data App in Postman.

Author: 嗯嗯，可以，我之前是看界面上的描述里用了 connect

> This document describes how to connect your Data App to Postman and how to run your Data App in Postman.

Author: updated in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14375/commits/e470f0743ad00e349b14b9212d0f521c4005dec6

## Before you begin

Before connecting a Data App to Postman, make sure that you have the following:

- A [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) account.
- A [Postman client](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) (Optional. You can use the Postman webpage version without downloading the client.)
- A [Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md) with at least one endpoint.
- An [API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md#create-an-api-key) for the Data App.

## Step 1. Connect your Data App to Postman

To connect your Data App to Postman, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.
2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to view its details.
3. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Run in Postman**. A dialog for connection instructions is displayed.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > For `Chat2Query` Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.

Author: ```suggestion
    > For `Chat2Query` Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable so it is invisible in the upper-right corner.
```

>     > For `Chat2Query` Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.

Author: updated in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/commit/e470f0743ad00e349b14b9212d0f521c4005dec6

4. Follow the steps provided in the dialog for the Postman connection:

    1. Depending on the Postman version you want to use, click **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman for Client** to open your Postman workspaces, and then click your target workspace in Postman.

        - If you have not logged into Postman, follow the on-screen instructions log into Postman first.
        - If you clicked **Run in Postman for Client**, follow the on-screen instructions to open the Postman client.

    2. On the page of your target workspace in Postman, click **Import** in the left navigation menu.
    3. Copy the Data App URL in the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then past the URL to Postman for the import.

5. After you paste the URL, Postman imports the Data App automatically as a new collection. The name of the connection is in the `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` format.

    In the connection, the deployed endpoints are grouped in the **Deployed** folder and the undeployed endpoints are grouped in the **Draft** folder.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > Postman only imports endpoints that are ready for use. If an endpoint does not have target cluster, database, table, path, or SQL statements, the endpoint is skipped by the import.

Reviewer: 这个地方可以修改一下，必须要配置的有四个元素：cluster、path、method、SQL

>     > Postman only imports endpoints that are ready for use. If an endpoint does not have target cluster, database, table, path, or SQL statements, the endpoint is skipped by the import.

Author: ```suggestion
    > Postman only imports endpoints that meet the following requirements:
    >
    > - The target cluster is selected.
    > - The endpoint path and request method are configured.
    >  - The SQL statements are written. 
```

2. Under the `<Your Endpoint Name>` tab, you can call your endpoint as follows:

    - For an endpoint without parameters, you can click **Send** to call it directly.
    - For an endpoint with parameters, you need to fill in the values of the parameters first, and then click **Send**.

        - For a `GET` or `DELETE` request, fill in values of the parameters in the **Query Params** table.
        - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in values of the parameters as an JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in values of the parameters as an array of JSON objects.

3. Check the response in the lower pane.

4. If you want to call the endpoint again with different parameter values, you can edit the parameter values accordingly, and then click **Send** again.

## Deal with new changes in Data App

After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not synchronize the following new changes to the Data App to Postman automatically.

- The creation of new endpoints
- The renaming or deletion of existing endpoints
- The parameter modification of existing endpoints

> If you want to have these changes in Postman, you need to import the latest Data App to Postman again. Because the connection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new connection.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to have these changes in Postman, you need to [import the latest Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md#step-1-connect-your-data-app-to-postman) to Postman again. Because the connection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new connection.
```

2. Under the `<Your Endpoint Name>` tab, you can call your endpoint as follows:

    - For an endpoint without parameters, you can click **Send** to call it directly.
    - For an endpoint with parameters, you need to fill in the parameter values first, and then click **Send**.

        - For a `GET` or `DELETE` request, fill in the parameter values in the **Query Params** table.
        - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in the parameter values as a JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in the parameter values as an array of JSON objects.

3. Check the response in the lower pane.

4. If you want to call the endpoint again with different parameter values, you can edit the parameter values accordingly, and then click **Send** again.

To learn more about the Postman usage, see [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs).

## Deal with new changes in Data App

After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not automatically synchronize new changes of the Data App to Postman.

> If you want any new changes to reflect in Postman, you have to [follow the import process](/tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md#step-1-import-your-data-app-to-postman) once again. Because the collection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new collection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want any new changes to reflect in Postman, you have to [follow the import process](#step-1-import-your-data-app-to-postman) once again. Because the collection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new collection.
```

---
title: Run Data App in Postman
summary: Learn how to run your Data App in Postman.
---

# Run Data App in Postman

> [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is an API platform for building and using APIs, which simplifies each step of the API lifecycle and streamlines collaboration so you can create better APIs—faster.

Reviewer 3: Postman is an API platform that simplifies the API lifecycle and enhances collaboration for faster and better API development

> [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is an API platform for building and using APIs, which simplifies each step of the API lifecycle and streamlines collaboration so you can create better APIs—faster.

Author: ```suggestion
[Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is an API platform that simplifies the API lifecycle and enhances collaboration for faster and better API development.
```

In TiDB Cloud [Data Service](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service), you can easily import your Data App to Postman and leverage Postman's extensive tools to enhance your API development experience.

This document describes how to import your Data App to Postman and how to run your Data App in Postman.

## Before you begin

Before importing a Data App to Postman, make sure that you have the following:

> - A [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) account.

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) account
```

> - A [Postman desktop app](https://www.postman.com/downloads) (Optional. You can use the Postman webpage version without downloading the app.)

Reviewer 3: A [Postman desktop app](https://www.postman.com/downloads) is available (optional). Alternatively, you can use the Postman web version without downloading the app."

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Postman desktop app](https://www.postman.com/downloads) (optional). Alternatively, you can use the Postman web version without downloading the app.
```

> - A [Postman Desktop app](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) (Optional. You can use the Postman webpage version without downloading the app.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [Postman desktop app](https://www.postman.com/downloads) (Optional. You can use the Postman webpage version without downloading the app.)
```

> - A [Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md) with at least one [endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md). Only endpoints that meet the following requirements can be imported to Postman:

Reviewer 3: A [Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md) with at least one well-defined [endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md).

> - A [Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md) with at least one [endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md). Only endpoints that meet the following requirements can be imported to Postman:

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md) with at least one well-defined [endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md). Only endpoints that meet the following requirements can be imported to Postman:
```

    - The target cluster is selected.
    - The endpoint path and request method are configured.

>     - The SQL statements are written.

Reviewer 3: I am a bit concerned calling it out especially "The SQL statement are written", reason is that tomorrow there may be custom functions just like SQL then this statement alone may not hold good.

Author: @jusong PTAL

- An [API key](/tidb-cloud/data-service-api-key.md#create-an-api-key) for the Data App.

## Step 1. Import your Data App to Postman

To import your Data App to Postman, take the following steps:

> 1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/data-service) page of your project.
```

2. In the left pane, click the name of your target Data App to view its details.

> 3. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Run in Postman**. A dialog for import instructions is displayed.

Reviewer 3: A dialog with import instructions will be displayed.

Author: In user docs, we usually use present tense rather than future tense.

https://developers.google.cn/style/tense
![image](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/79440533/0e9bcf19-496a-4ff5-9028-59be3bdb95cd)

> 3. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Run in Postman**. A dialog for import instructions is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In the upper-right corner of the page, click **Run in Postman**. A dialog with import instructions is displayed.
```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > - If a Data App does not have any endpoint with the target cluster, path, request method, SQL statements configured, **Run in Postman** in unclickable for the Data App.

Author: ```suggestion
    > - If a Data App does not have any endpoint with the target cluster, path, request method, and SQL statements configured, **Run in Postman** is unclickable for the Data App.
```

>     > - If a Data App does not have any endpoint with the target cluster, path, request method, and SQL statements configured, **Run in Postman** is unclickable for the Data App.

Reviewer 3: If a Data App lacks a well-defined endpoint, the Run in Postman option will remain disabled.

>     > - If a Data App does not have any endpoint with the target cluster, path, request method, and SQL statements configured, **Run in Postman** is unclickable for the Data App.

Author: ```suggestion
    > - If a Data App lacks a well-defined endpoint (the target cluster, path, request method, and SQL statements are configured), **Run in Postman** remains disabled for the Data App.
```

>     > - For a Chat2Query Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.

Reviewer 3: For a Data App of type `Chat2Query` the option to Run in Postman is not available.

>     > - For a Chat2Query Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.

Author: ```suggestion
    > - For a Chat2Query Data App, **Run in Postman** is not available.
```

>     > - For `Chat2Query` Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > - For a Chat2Query Data App, **Run in Postman** is unavailable.
```

4. Follow the steps provided in the dialog for the Data App import:

>     1. Depending on the Postman version you want to use, click **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman Desktop** to open your Postman workspaces, and then select your target workspace in Postman.

Reviewer 3: Depending on your preference, choose either Run in Postman for Web or Run in Postman Desktop to open your Postman workspaces, and then select your target workspace

>     1. Depending on the Postman version you want to use, click **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman Desktop** to open your Postman workspaces, and then select your target workspace in Postman.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. Depending on your preference, choose either **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman Desktop** to open your Postman workspaces, and then select your target workspace.
```

>     1. Depending on the Postman version you want to use, click **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman Desktop** to open your Postman workspaces, and then click your target workspace in Postman.
> 
>         - If you have not logged into Postman, follow the on-screen instructions log into Postman first.
>         - If you clicked **Run in Postman Desktop**, follow the on-screen instructions to open the Postman client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Depending on the Postman version you want to use, click **Run in Postman for Web** or **Run in Postman Desktop** to open your Postman workspaces, and then select your target workspace in Postman.

        - If you have not logged into Postman, follow the on-screen instructions to log into Postman first.
        - If you clicked **Run in Postman Desktop**, follow the on-screen instructions to open the Postman desktop app.
```

>         - If you clicked **Run in Postman Desktop**, follow the on-screen instructions to open the Postman desktop app.

Reviewer 3: If you clicked Run in Postman Desktop, follow the on-screen instructions to launch the Postman desktop app

>         - If you clicked **Run in Postman Desktop**, follow the on-screen instructions to open the Postman desktop app.

Author: ```suggestion
        - If you clicked **Run in Postman Desktop**, follow the on-screen instructions to launch the Postman desktop app.
```

    2. On the page of your target workspace in Postman, click **Import** in the left navigation menu.

>     3. Copy the Data App URL in the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then past the URL to Postman for the import.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. Copy the Data App URL in the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then paste the URL to Postman for the import.
```

>     3. Copy the Data App URL in the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then paste the URL to Postman for the import.

Reviewer 3: Copy the Data App URL from the TiDB Cloud dialog and then paste the URL in Postman to being the import process

>     3. Copy the Data App URL in the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then paste the URL to Postman for the import.

Author: ```suggestion
    3. Copy the Data App URL from the TiDB Cloud dialog, and then paste the URL to Postman for the import.
```

> 5. After you paste the URL, Postman imports the Data App automatically as a new [collection](https://learning.postman.com/docs/collections/collections-overview/). The name of the collection is in the `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. After you paste the URL, Postman imports the Data App automatically as a new [collection](https://learning.postman.com/docs/collections/collections-overview). The name of the collection is in the `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` format.
```

>     In the collection, the deployed endpoints are grouped in the **Deployed** folder and the undeployed endpoints are grouped in the **Draft** folder.

Reviewer 3: In the collection, the deployed endpoints are grouped under the **Deployed** folder and the un-deployed endpoints under the **Draft** folder.

>     In the collection, the deployed endpoints are grouped in the **Deployed** folder and the undeployed endpoints are grouped in the **Draft** folder.

Author: ```suggestion
    In the collection, the deployed endpoints are grouped under the **Deployed** folder and the un-deployed endpoints are grouped under the **Draft** folder.
```

## Step 2. Configure your Data App API key in Postman

Before running the imported Data App in Postman, you need to configure the API key for the Data App in Postman as follows:

> 1. In the left navigation pane of Postman, click `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` to open a tab for it on the right side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the left navigation menu of Postman, click `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` to open a tab for it on the right side.
```

2. Under the `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` tab, click the **Variables** tab.

> 3. In the variable table, paste your public key and private key for your Data App to the **Current value** column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the variable table, enter the public key and private key for your Data App in the **Current value** column.
```

4. In the upper-right corner of the `TiDB Data Service - <Your App Name>` tab, click **Save**.

## Step 3. Run Data App in Postman

To run your Data App in Postman, take the following steps:

> 1. In the left navigation pane of Postman, expand the **Deployed** or **Draft** folder, and then click your endpoint name to open a tab for it on the right side.

Reviewer 3: In the left navigation pane of Postman, expand the **Deployed** or **Draft** folder, and then select your endpoint by clicking on the name in order to open a working tab for it on the right side.

Author: Not sure if this change is necessary as the original one seems more concise?

2. Under the `<Your Endpoint Name>` tab, you can call your endpoint as follows:

    - For an endpoint without parameters, you can click **Send** to call it directly.
    - For an endpoint with parameters, you need to fill in the values of the parameters first, and then click **Send**.

        - For a `GET` or `DELETE` request, fill in values of the parameters in the **Query Params** table.

>         - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in values of the parameters as an JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in values of the parameters as an array of JSON objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in values of the parameters as a JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in values of the parameters as an array of JSON objects.
```

> 2. Under the `<Your Endpoint Name>` tab, you can call your endpoint as follows:
> 
>     - For an endpoint without parameters, you can click **Send** to call it directly.
>     - For an endpoint with parameters, you need to fill in the values of the parameters first, and then click **Send**.
> 
>         - For a `GET` or `DELETE` request, fill in values of the parameters in the **Query Params** table.
>         - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in values of the parameters as an JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in values of the parameters as an array of JSON objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Under the `<Your Endpoint Name>` tab, you can call your endpoint as follows:

    - For an endpoint without parameters, you can click **Send** to call it directly.
    - For an endpoint with parameters, you need to fill in the parameter values first, and then click **Send**.

        - For a `GET` or `DELETE` request, fill in the parameter values in the **Query Params** table.
        - For a `POST` or `PUT` request, click the **Body** tab, and then fill in the parameter values as a JSON object. If **Batch Operation** is enabled for the endpoint in TiDB Cloud Data Service, fill in the parameter values as an array of JSON objects.
```

3. Check the response in the lower pane.

4. If you want to call the endpoint again with different parameter values, you can edit the parameter values accordingly, and then click **Send** again.

To learn more about the Postman usage, see [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs).

## Deal with new changes in Data App

> After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not synchronize the following new changes of the Data App to Postman.

Reviewer 3: I think it will not automatically import any new changes ! Can you please confirm with @clark Wen ? 
If so then you don't need to make it so obvious in the docs. Also you can emphasis on the word automatic i.e "TiDB Cloud Data Service will not automatically synchronize

Author: What about SQL statement updates without parameter changes or SQL endpoint max row changes?
@clark1013 @jusong PTAL

> After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not synchronize the following new changes of the Data App to Postman.

Author: ```suggestion
After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not automatically synchronize the following new changes of the Data App to Postman.
```

> After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not automatically synchronize the following new changes of the Data App to Postman.
> 
> - The creation of new endpoints
> - The renaming or deletion of existing endpoints
> - The parameter modification of existing endpoints

Author: ```suggestion
After a Data App is imported to Postman, TiDB Cloud Data Service will not automatically synchronize new changes of the Data App to Postman.
```

> If you want to have these changes in Postman, you need to [import the latest Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md#step-1-import-your-data-app-to-postman) to Postman again. Because the collection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new collection.

Reviewer 3: If you want any new changes to reflect in Postman, you will have to follow the import process once again.

> If you want to have these changes in Postman, you need to [import the latest Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md#step-1-import-your-data-app-to-postman) to Postman again. Because the collection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new collection.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want any new changes to reflect in Postman, you need to [follow the import process](/tidb-cloud/data-service-postman-integration.md#step-1-import-your-data-app-to-postman) once again. Because the collection name is unique in a Postman workspace, you can either use the latest Data App to replace the previously imported one or import the latest Data App as a new collection.
```

> After the import, you need to configure the API key for the newly imported App in Postman again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the import, you need to [configure the API key for the newly imported App](#step-2-configure-your-data-app-api-key-in-postman) in Postman again.
```

> After the import, you need to [configure the API key for the newly imported App](#step-2-configure-your-data-app-api-key-in-postman) in Postman again.

Reviewer 3: Also, after re-importing the Data App, you will have to [configure the API key for the newly imported App](#step-2-configure-your-data-app-api-key-in-postman) in Postman again

> After the import, you need to [configure the API key for the newly imported App](#step-2-configure-your-data-app-api-key-in-postman) in Postman again.

Author: ```suggestion
Also, after re-importing the Data App, you will have to [configure the API key for the newly imported App](#step-2-configure-your-data-app-api-key-in-postman) in Postman again.
```
